Add `osu!monthly November 2022` news post (#8416)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2022-12-01-osumonthly-5.md

---
layout: post
title: "osu!monthly, November 2022"
date: 2022-12-01 10:00:00 +0000
---

Catch up with community happenings in November's edition of osu!monthly!

![](/wiki/shared/news/2022-12-01-osumonthly-5/banner.jpg)

> Welcome to the 5th edition of osu!monthly! This month a lot has happened tournament wise (and a lot will be happening in December as well!), so to cover the osu! World Cup we asked [Junihuhn](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4182339) to provide a writeup and they delivered! Other than tournaments, there have been lots of cool things happening within the realm of osu!, and we hope you all enjoy this edition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to the 5th edition of osu!monthly! This month a lot has happened tournament wise (and a lot will be happening in December as well!), so to cover the osu! World Cup we asked [Junihuhn](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4182339) to provide a write-up and he delivered! Other than tournaments, there have been lots of cool things happening within the realm of osu!, and we hope you all enjoy this edition.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Welcome to the 5th edition of osu!monthly! This month a lot has happened tournament wise (and a lot will be happening in December as well!), so to cover the osu! World Cup we asked [Junihuhn](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4182339) to provide a write-up and they delivered! Other than tournaments, there have been lots of cool things happening within the realm of osu!, and we hope you all enjoy this edition.
```

> If you want to contribute feel free to reach out! You can find us over at the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/ppy), or you can reach out to 0x84f#0001 on Discord.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to contribute, feel free to reach out! You can find us over at the [osu!dev Discord server](https://discord.com/invite/ppy), or you can reach out to 0x84f#0001 on Discord.
```

> If you are interested in checking out all of the previous editions feel free to look at our [forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1614314?n=1)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in checking out all of the previous editions, feel free to look at our [forum thread](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1614314?n=1)!
```

## Table of contents

- [What's new in osu!(lazer)](#what's-new-in-osu!(lazer))
- [Community recap](#community-recap)
- [Did you know?](#did-you-know?)
- [Monthly community quiz](#monthly-community-quiz)
- [Things to look out for in December](#things-to-look-out-for-in-december)
- [End word](#end-word)

## What's new in osu!(lazer)

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1tcE_LaE9gI" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> This month osu!(lazer) received one update, but it still managed to be jam-packed full of performance updates! 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This month osu!(lazer) received one update, but it still managed to be jam-packed full of performance updates!
```

> First of all, argon (the new default osu!(lazer) skin) has finally received it's first pass for the taiko game mode, making the skin available for all osu! gamers, regardless of their game mode. As announced in the updates video shown above, [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2) stated mania will receive another pass as a lot of feedback was received about the skin and he also felt like the skin could be even better than it's current form. As for what's coming in the future in terms of skinning and design, the skin hit effects etc. will all be made editable for the community to play around with, and even a redesign of the HUD has been mentioned and teased. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First of all, argon (the new default osu!(lazer) skin) has finally received its first pass for the taiko game mode, making the skin available for all osu! gamers, regardless of their game mode. As announced in the updates video shown above, [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2) stated mania will receive another pass as a lot of feedback was received about the skin and he also felt like the skin could be even better than its current form. As for what's coming in the future in terms of skinning and design, the skin hit effects, etc. will all be made editable for the community to play around with, and even a redesign of the HUD has been mentioned and teased.
```

> One cool feature that we'd like to showcase this month is a really small, but welcome one. Did you know that in osu!(lazer), if a beatmap set has difficulties for multiple game modes, only the difficulties from your current game mode will be shown in the map carousel? Take a look below!

Author: yeah I never knew there was a show converts setting in stable so I am not sure if this is something worth covering? Worst case scenario I'd have to think of another thing to showcase

> One cool feature that we'd like to showcase this month is a really small, but welcome one. Did you know that in osu!(lazer), if a beatmap set has difficulties for multiple game modes, only the difficulties from your current game mode will be shown in the map carousel? Take a look below!

Reviewer 2: if you spin it as being a "small tidbit" then it should be fine. even though it's a small thing it'd be intentional, which is what i was going for in this suggestion

> One cool feature that we'd like to showcase this month is a really small, but welcome one. Did you know that in osu!(lazer), if a beatmap set has difficulties for multiple game modes, only the difficulties from your current game mode will be shown in the map carousel? Take a look below!

Author: done in [3fa490e](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/8416/commits/3fa490e4ca3dfa5e4323e0b4d3bbae5e8b573e92)

VIDEO HERE ONCE UPLOADED

Other than that, there have been lots of smaller performance, UX & UI, gameplay and editor changes, all of which you can view in the [changelog here](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer/2022.1117.0)!

## Community recap

### OWC 2022

![](/wiki/shared/news/2022-12-01-osumonthly-5/banner-OWC.jpg)

One of the most competitive and dramatic iterations of osu! World Cup has come to an end in late November.

| Placing | Player |
| :-: | :-- |
| ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-gold.png "1st place") | ::{ flag=US }:: United States |
| ![Silver crown](/wiki/shared/crown-silver.png "2nd place") | ::{ flag=KR }:: South Korea |
| ![Bronze crown](/wiki/shared/crown-bronze.png "3rd place") | ::{ flag=DE }:: Germany |

The top 3 of OWC 2021 have returned, but they shuffled the placings around a bit. The US team extended their title streak to five in a row, beating South Korea in a tense bracket reset. Germany keeps gathering OWC badges with a third place finish.

> Everything was set for a South Korean Cinderella story. After the fifth place seeding, the Asian roster was widely regarded as one of the top teams, but was predicted to fall short on making the Grand Finals stage. Main reason: Two key members, namely [FlyingTuna](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9224078) and [Karuna](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8775024), have left the team and five new members were introduced. However, a new unstoppable duo with [worst hr player](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14106450) and [[Karcher]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11443437) appeared, both having an incredible year of solo and team community tournaments. The mental stability helped to win back-to-back tiebreaker fights against the North American teams Canada and surprisingly, the USA.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everything was set for a South Korean Cinderella story. After the fifth place seeding, the Asian roster was widely regarded as one of the top teams, but was predicted to fall short on making the Grand Finals stage. The main reason: Two key members, namely [FlyingTuna](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9224078) and [Karuna](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8775024), have left the team and five new members were introduced. However, a new unstoppable duo with [worst hr player](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14106450) and [[Karcher]](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/11443437) appeared, both having an incredible year of solo and team community tournaments. The mental stability helped to win back-to-back tiebreaker fights against the North American teams Canada and surprisingly, the USA.
```

South Korea's opponent in winners bracket finals was Germany with captain [criller](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8116659) and star player [WhiteCat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4504101). They have constantly "passed the eye test" with rock solid wins relying on aim and speed, but they showed unexpected flaws on the consistency and DoubleTime picks against the South Korean roster. The Asian side used these weaknesses to their advantage and secured their Top 2 spot with a 7-3 victory. Now, the Germans would meet the US team once again — in Grand Finals losers bracket.

> After a winning streak of 22 matches, the USA in lower bracket was an unusual sight. Up until their loss against South Korea, their performance looked somewhat shaky. Nevertheless, their roster — once again — turned out to be the best-scaling team in the world, beating Romania and Poland in Losers Finals without much issue. The skillcap difference was especially displayed at Grand Finals level, as the American side nearly swept Germany to knock them out of the tournament. Even though the USA have a deep and versatile roster, [Utami](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7512553), the rookie of OWC 2021, stood out as the main carry of his team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a winning streak of 22 matches, the USA in lower bracket was an unusual sight. Up until their loss against South Korea, their performance looked somewhat shaky. Nevertheless, their roster — once again — turned out to be the best-scaling team in the world, beating Romania and Poland in Losers Finals without much issue. The skill cap difference was especially displayed at Grand Finals level, as the American side nearly swept Germany to knock them out of the tournament. Even though the USA has a deep and versatile roster, [Utami](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7512553), the rookie of OWC 2021, stood out as the main carry of his team.
```

> After a winning streak of 22 matches, the USA in lower bracket was an unusual sight. Up until their loss against South Korea, their performance looked somewhat shaky. Nevertheless, their roster — once again — turned out to be the best-scaling team in the world, beating Romania and Poland in Losers Finals without much issue. The skill cap difference was especially displayed at Grand Finals level, as the American side nearly swept Germany to knock them out of the tournament. Even though the USA has a deep and versatile roster, [Utami](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7512553), the rookie of OWC 2021, stood out as the main carry of his team.

Author: I guess you could consider scaling to be like nonlinear performance, which in the context would mean that the harder the maps are the better the performance of the team is. I will leave this as not resolved and get Junihuhn to comment their thoughts

> After a winning streak of 22 matches, the USA in lower bracket was an unusual sight. Up until their loss against South Korea, their performance looked somewhat shaky. Nevertheless, their roster — once again — turned out to be the best-scaling team in the world, beating Romania and Poland in Losers Finals without much issue. The skill cap difference was especially displayed at Grand Finals level, as the American side nearly swept Germany to knock them out of the tournament. Even though the USA has a deep and versatile roster, [Utami](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7512553), the rookie of OWC 2021, stood out as the main carry of his team.

Reviewer 2: i'm only concerned about this "scaling" term, and if it's not an actual thing then i'd consider replacing it. you could use something like "best-performing" if that gets the point across.

> After a winning streak of 22 matches, the USA in lower bracket was an unusual sight. Up until their loss against South Korea, their performance looked somewhat shaky. Nevertheless, their roster — once again — turned out to be the best-scaling team in the world, beating Romania and Poland in Losers Finals without much issue. The skill cap difference was especially displayed at Grand Finals level, as the American side nearly swept Germany to knock them out of the tournament. Even though the USA has a deep and versatile roster, [Utami](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7512553), the rookie of OWC 2021, stood out as the main carry of his team.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, we've used "scaling" quite a lot in tournament lingo. I think something like "best team in the later stages" or "best late-game/endgame team" is more approachable

> Their dominant showing continued in Grand Finals against South Korea, landing the same result (7-1) to force the bracket reset. One more time, the team around the Korean power duo showed huge morale for a comeback, but their carry performances didn't come to fruition as the United States proceeded to win 7-4 to become champion for the fifth consecutive year.

Author: FlyingTuna and Karuna didn't play, I assume this is supposed to be worst hr player and [Karcher]

```suggestion
Their dominant showing continued in Grand Finals against South Korea, landing the same result (7-1) to force the bracket reset. One more time, the team around the Korean power duo [Karcher] and worst hr player showed huge morale for a comeback, but their carry performances didn't come to fruition as the United States proceeded to win 7-4 to become champion for the fifth consecutive year.
```

> Their dominant showing continued in Grand Finals against South Korea, landing the same result (7-1) to force the bracket reset. One more time, the team around the Korean power duo showed huge morale for a comeback, but their carry performances didn't come to fruition as the United States proceeded to win 7-4 to become champion for the fifth consecutive year.

Reviewer 2: oh lol i read that section and took the wrong two people, woops

### OTMT 2022

![](/wiki/shared/news/2022-12-01-osumonthly-5/OTMT2022-banner.jpg)

The 2nd edition of osu!taiko Malaysian Tournament (OTMT for short) has concluded! For the 2nd edition the production has gone up quite drastically, with 10 commissioned songs made for the tournament ([all released for free on Bandcamp](https://iristocrats.bandcamp.com/album/cons-is-c)), custom maps and even their own mascot, IRIS!

| Placing | Player |
| :-: | :-- |
| ![Gold crown](/wiki/shared/crown-gold.png "1st place") | [CrabCow](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9755504) |
| ![Silver crown](/wiki/shared/crown-silver.png "2nd place") | [HHVanilla Ice](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12803930) |
| ![Bronze crown](/wiki/shared/crown-bronze.png "3rd place") | [JyaKeii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12086753) |

> After crawling back out of the Losers Bracket by dealing a swift 7-1 blow to [JyaKeii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12086753), [HHVanilla Ice](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12803930) was well on their way to defend their OTMT2021 Champion title by forcing a 7-5 bracket reset against [CrabCow](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9755504) and even pushing for an initial 4-1 lead in the second set. However, CrabCow quickly found their footing and blasted through the remaining maps to challenge HHVanilla Ice in an epic tiebreaker showdown, closing off the tournament with a 30k point difference in favour of CrabCow and securing their first OTMT Champion title. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After crawling back out of the Losers Bracket by dealing a swift 7-1 blow to [JyaKeii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12086753), [HHVanilla Ice](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/12803930) was well on their way to defend their OTMT2021 Champion title by forcing a 7-5 bracket reset against [CrabCow](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9755504) and even pushing for an initial 4-1 lead in the second set. However, CrabCow quickly found their footing and blasted through the remaining maps to challenge HHVanilla Ice in an epic tiebreaker showdown, closing off the tournament with a 30k point difference in favour of CrabCow and securing their first OTMT Champion title.
```

> If you are interested in the watching the match yourself you can find the [Twitch VOD here](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/1664000839), or if you want to listen to the insane commissioned tiebreaker song (and custom map), feel free to check out the YouTube video below!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are interested in the watching the match yourself, you can find the [Twitch VOD here](https://www.twitch.tv/videos/1664000839), or if you want to listen to the insane commissioned tiebreaker song (and custom map), feel free to check out the YouTube video below!
```

### SillyFanGirl's BR eSports nomination

![https://twitter.com/premioesportsbr/status/1593590309631295488?s=20&t=1thfKY6-BpTCFDsbtltDdw](https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_banners/983759809156669440/1663599648/1500x500)

It is already a very hard feat to be recognized as one of the best, most versatile players 4K osu!mania has ever seen. [SillyFanGirl](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2288363) has not only been able to achieve this, but is also an active [content creator](https://www.youtube.com/@SillyFangirlosu), an active tournament player, and overall an incredible community member to interact with!

But as if their astounding performance on [this year's osu!mania World Cup](/wiki/Tournaments/MWC/2022_4K) was not enough, for the second consecutive year they've been nominated in Brazil's eSports Award in the "Best Athlete in Other Modalities" category!

If you want to directly support them or get yourself involved in the Brazil's eSports Awards show, [we encourage you to do so by participating on their website](https://peb.gg).

### Notable osu! plays of the month

*Section written by [0x84f](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7944724)*

> Month after month [mrekk](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7562902) keeps proving why he is the best osu! player in the world, and if you *still* needed some justification as to why people consider him as one of the greatest players of all time check out his +HDDT play on [Save Me](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/594170#osu/1256809). This 11 minute long marathon by [Drummer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4102249) has been considered by some as the "endgame" map to FC with HDDT, unfortunately mrekk choked at the end with 4 misses and a couple of slider breaks but nonetheless, an amazing play to witness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Month after month [mrekk](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7562902) keeps proving why he is the best osu! player in the world, and if you *still* needed some justification as to why people consider him as one of the greatest players of all time, check out his HDDT play on [Save Me](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/594170#osu/1256809). This 11 minute long marathon by [Drummer](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/4102249) has been considered by some as the "endgame" map to FC with HDDT, unfortunately mrekk choked at the end with 4 misses and a couple of slider breaks but nonetheless, an amazing play to witness.
```

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/SSJOtgLmOIo" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Another notable play amongst a sea of mrekk's scores that push the game beyond it's limits would be [worst hr player](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/14106450/)'s 1x sliderbreak run on [Katagiri](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmaps/artists/176)'s remix of [true DJ MAG top ranker's song Zenpen](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1357624#osu/2809623), which you can [check out here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qKOefiZZT8U).

### Notable osu!taiko plays of the month

*Section written by [Blushing](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/5927823)*

> It's one thing to get the number one spot on the leaderboard, but it's another to completely be the only FC with a mod at all, lest it be hidden of all mods. Though, [Peaceful](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/165027) took up the challenge and managed to absolutely *defile* and *violate* [The Violation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1452092#taiko/2985808).

Author: "defile" and "violate" were used together because of the difficulty name "Defilement" + song name "The Violation", other changes are OK but let me know if you are OK with them two staying or if you want only "violate" to stay.

> It's one thing to get the number one spot on the leaderboard, but it's another to completely be the only FC with a mod at all, lest it be hidden of all mods. Though, [Peaceful](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/165027) took up the challenge and managed to absolutely *defile* and *violate* [The Violation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1452092#taiko/2985808).

Reviewer 2: ok yeah i didn't notice the Defilement diff name, but in this sentence you'd have know that to understand that "defile" would be relevant so i'd personally still exclude it.

if you worded it like "absolutely *defile* and *violate* the Defilement diff of [The Violation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1452092#taiko/2985808)" i'd be more ok with it, but i don't think it sounds as neat

stylistic stuff

> It's one thing to get the number one spot on the leaderboard, but it's another to completely be the only FC with a mod at all, lest it be hidden of all mods. Though, [Peaceful](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/165027) took up the challenge and managed to absolutely *defile* and *violate* [The Violation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1452092#taiko/2985808).

Author: @Blooshing can you review Wala's comments and let me know how you'd like to proceed

> It's one thing to get the number one spot on the leaderboard, but it's another to completely be the only FC with a mod at all, lest it be hidden of all mods. Though, [Peaceful](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/165027) took up the challenge and managed to absolutely *defile* and *violate* [The Violation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1452092#taiko/2985808).

Reviewer 4: Let's word it like wala, I wanna keep the play on words in the sentence if possible.

> It's one thing to get the number one spot on the leaderboard, but it's another to completely be the only FC with a mod at all, lest it be hidden of all mods. Though, [Peaceful](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/165027) took up the challenge and managed to absolutely *defile* and *violate* [The Violation](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1452092#taiko/2985808).

Author: I will apply Wala's original different diff change since saying the "Defilement diff of The Violation" implies there's more than one diff

> While not being the longest nor fastest map osu!monthly has showcased, it is definitely a merit in and of itself. Coming in at 270 BPM, various rhythm changes, not to mention these timing changes are happening within 1/4 streams, and being over 5 minutes in nigh non-stop drumming action, this map definitely holds up to its name. Beware, both the replay and Peaceful make the map look like a walk in the park, but it is a sight to behold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While not being the longest nor fastest map osu!monthly has showcased, it is definitely a merit in and of itself. Coming in at 270 BPM, various rhythm changes, not to mention these timing changes are happening within 1/4 streams, and being over 5 minutes into nigh non-stop drumming action, this map definitely holds up to its name. Beware, both the replay and Peaceful make the map look like a walk in the park, but it is a sight to behold.
```

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xdNJyMYHw0A" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Some other notable plays for November include [shinchikuhome](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3174184)'s [DT 3x100 FC](https://osu.ppy.sh/scores/taiko/175425262) on [Lunaticon](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1727109#taiko/3529595), while this one is a Loved map it is no small feat to be done, but lets be real — shinchikuhome does no such thing as small feats. Also, [nurend](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9905079)'s [nightcore 10x miss](https://osu.ppy.sh/scores/taiko/175201104) on [Central Nucleous](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/695399#taiko/1473448) being the second highest combo and lowest miss nightcore enhanced play yet.

### Notable osu!catch plays of the month

*Section written by [Patatitta](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16294034)*

> [Aryssiel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2389481) has broken yet another record, getting a DT FC on the top difficulty of the recently ranked map [Kick Back!](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1864673#fruits/3834979). This marks a new pp record for the mod, being the first 1000pp play on this category of play, and beating the previous record by over 50pp.

Author: ```suggestion
[Aryssiel](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2389481) has broken yet another record, getting a [DT FC on the top difficulty](https://osu.ppy.sh/scores/fruits/210115320) of the recently ranked map [Kick Back!](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1864673#fruits/3834979). This marks a new pp record for the mod, being the first 1000pp play on this category of play, and beating the previous record by over 50pp.
```

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/7NUzL8_lFh4" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> There has been many other outstanding plays this month, but [Ttobas](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2084568)' DT FC on the top difficulty of [Now on stage!!](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/745838#fruits/1572198) has stood on top of them, showing once again their impressive convert and DT skills on this massively popular map.

Reviewer: Do we have the link of this score ? If yes, add it around `DT FC`

> There has been many other outstanding plays this month, but [Ttobas](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2084568)' DT FC on the top difficulty of [Now on stage!!](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/745838#fruits/1572198) has stood on top of them, showing once again their impressive convert and DT skills on this massively popular map.

Author: I pinged the writer of this section on Discord

> There has been many other outstanding plays this month, but [Ttobas](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2084568)' DT FC on the top difficulty of [Now on stage!!](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/745838#fruits/1572198) has stood on top of them, showing once again their impressive convert and DT skills on this massively popular map.

Author: As per the writer

```suggestion
There has been many other outstanding plays this month, but [b-a-d-s123](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2084568)'s [HDDT FC](https://osu.ppy.sh/scores/fruits/210344480) on the top difficulty of [Now on stage!!](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/745838#fruits/1572198) has stood on top of them, showing once again their impressive convert and DT skills on this massively popular map.
```

### Notable osu!mania plays of the month

> Roughly 24 hours passed since [stεganography](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1846639#mania/3793375) — osu!mania's most recent challenging chart — was released. That's the amount of time it took [bojii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10083439/mania) to submit the first Full Combo in its leaderboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Roughly 24 hours have passed since [stεganography](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1846639#mania/3793375) — osu!mania's most recent challenging chart — was released. That's the amount of time it took [bojii](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/10083439/mania) to submit the first FC in its leaderboards.
```

Author: I don't agree with this change as it's subjective to the user whether FC or Full Combo will be used. Furthermore because this sentence in past tense I think "have" is not necessary

Reviewer 5: Would prefer if it can stay as is then. Don't really like abbreviating stuff unless it's repeated over and over or becessary.

<iframe width="100%" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/npZLSLb6REA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> For those who remember the map since it's showcase in [MWC22's Grand Finals](/wiki/Tournaments/MWC/2022_4K#grand-finals), this is quite the feat given its pattern variety. It takes a jack of all trades and master of all to be able to achieve such a thing, and bojii brushed it off as it were just another normal chart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those who remember the map since its showcase in [MWC22's Grand Finals](/wiki/Tournaments/MWC/2022_4K#grand-finals), this is quite the feat given its pattern variety. It takes a jack of all trades and master of all to be able to achieve such a thing, and bojii brushed it off as it was just another normal chart.
```

Author: past tense on the 2nd suggestion, I think it should stay as is

## Did you know?

There are many [user groups](/wiki/People/The_Team#user-groups) on osu!, most often recognizable by their title or color, indicating their membership in that group.

During this month, a new group has appeared on the osu! website. Indeed, the [Beatmap Spotlight Curators team](https://osu.ppy.sh/groups/48) has received their own group as a means to distinguish them from regular users and provide more transparency as to who is involved with the project.

Furthermore, descriptions have been added to all user groups which has also contributed to transparency and informing the players as to what the purpose of said group is, all in all a very good addition to the website.

## Monthly community quiz

Last month's question took a bit longer to answer than usual, but the answer was still found!

Congratulations to [metis_](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8171561) for being the first person to answer last month's question and score themselves 1 month of osu!supporter!
For anyone who missed last month's edition, the question was:

> *"What symbol of halloween went extinct in early 2015, and what did they drop after their reincarnation?"*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*"What symbol of Halloween went extinct in early 2015, and what did they drop after their reincarnation?"*
```

and the answer was: *BAT (Beatmap Appreciation Team)*. If you were curious, the "T" was dropped after the group was renamed into "Beatmap Appreciators".

Thanks to chromb we have got yet another puzzling question for you, and that question is...:

TBA 

> Rules are as usual, you have 1 month since the news post release to answer, first person to answer correctly receives 1 month of osu!supporter. Good luck!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rules are as usual, you have 1 month since the news post release to answer, first person to answer correctly receives 1 month of osu!supporter. Good luck!
```

## Things to look out for in December

> - A new LAN is organized next month but this time, in France! The [UTT Arena](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1661444?n=1) organized tournaments for osu! and osu!mania, so if you are interested in the French scene be sure to catch the top French players compete on the hardest maps by tuning into their livestream on [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/osufrlive).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new LAN is organized next month, but this time, in France! The [UTT Arena](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1661444?n=1) organized tournaments for osu! and osu!mania, so if you are interested in the French scene, be sure to catch the top French players compete on the hardest maps by tuning into their livestream on [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/osufrlive).
```

- The "New Beginnings" art contest [has been announced and is underway](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/160)! You have until mid-December to submit your wonderful artworks, or if you are not the creative or drawing type, sit tight as we await for the voting to begin just around the winter holidays!

## End word

> Thank you for reading this month's edition of osu!monthly! Next month we will be making some announcements in regards to additional content being added onto osu!monthly and we would love to hear your opinions! As always, if you have any words of encouragement or criticism, we would also love for you to reach out and let us know what we can do better.

Reviewer 2: "we will be announcing something next month and we would like you to give us your opinion about it then"

i mean at least word it somewhat mysteriously if there's nothing to say about it

```suggestion
Thank you for reading this month's edition of osu!monthly! Next month will see the start of *new content* in this monthly post, so keep your eyes peeled. As always, if you have any words of encouragement or criticism, we would also love for you to reach out and let us know what you would like to see.
```

> The osu!monthly team once again wishes you the best during the current holiday season!  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The osu!monthly team once again wishes you the best during the current holiday season!
```

> —0x84f, Junihuhn, Pisapou

Reviewer 2: why aren't all co-writers listed here 🤔

Author: I was worried that we'd have too many co-writers so I opted to have people who are doing "smaller" segments such as plays for the individual game modes be credited at the top of their segment. If you think we can have all of them written in the authors mark I don't have anything against it

Reviewer 5: Quick doubt then. Didn't see mania's play be credited, nor was I here. Unsure if that should be mentioned somewhere (either in the Play of the Month, on Silly's section, both, or at the end here).

Reviewer 2: well if you have like 10 people writing small sections then sure, use your own discretion. i just brought this up because iirc the Mappers' Report credited everyone here.

and it's not like github reviewers get credited either ([most of the time](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2021-11-09-performance-points-star-rating-updates)) so i guess this is up for debate anyway

Author: @MChecaH shoot yeah you were not credited, I will fix that (and since you also wrote Silly's part I will add you to co-authors), but there needs to be a discussion about possibly having 1 name for author's mark and whether everyone's parts will be individually credited like the plays

Author: Fixed that in [3fa490e](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/pull/8416/commits/3fa490e4ca3dfa5e4323e0b4d3bbae5e8b573e92), I will start a discussion about coauthoring after we get this release sorted

and the answer was: *BAT (Beatmap Appreciation Team)*. If you were curious, the "T" was dropped after the group was renamed into "Beatmap Appreciators".

Thanks to chromb we have got yet another puzzling question for you, and that question is...

TBA 

The rules are as usual: you have 1 month since the news post release to answer, and the first person to answer correctly receives 1 month of osu!supporter. Good luck!

## Things to look out for in December

- A new LAN is organised next month, but this time, in France! The [UTT Arena](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/topics/1661444?n=1) organised tournaments for osu! and osu!mania, so if you are interested in the French scene, be sure to catch the top French players compete on the hardest maps by tuning into their livestream on [Twitch](https://www.twitch.tv/osufrlive).
- The "New Beginnings" art contest [has been announced and is underway](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/contests/160)! You have until mid-December to submit your wonderful artworks, or if you are not the creative or drawing type, sit tight as we await for the voting to begin just around the winter holidays!

> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Are you interested in the upper echelon of 4-digit osu!taiko gameplay? Don't miss [RGTS 2022](https://gtsosu.com/rgts/home), which runs throughout the first half of December until the 18th, where 5-man teams between ranks #1500 and #4500 confront each other in 2v2 matches. You can watch it all live on their [Twitch channel](https://www.twitch.tv/gtsosu), so don't hesitate to take a look.

```
